# Image Optimization Project

This project is designed to optimize images by cropping, compressing and converting them to WebP format if needed if they are not. The optimized images are resized to a default of 500x500 pixels. The project also logs the details of the optimization process for each image.

## Directory Structure

**Input Directory:**

Place the images you want to compress in the `collections` directory.

**Output Directory:** 

The processed and optimized images will be stored in the `New Collections` directory. You do not need to create this directory it is automatically generated by the program.

## Tweaking Image Size

By default, images are resized to 500x500 pixels. You can change this size by modifying the `width` and `height` parameters in the `resize` function within the script.

```python
        # Resize the image to 500x500 pixels
        resized = source.resize(
            method="cover",
            width=500,
            height=500
        )
```

## Logs

Logs are useful for keeping track of the optimization process, including:

1. Image (name)

2. Original Dimension (Before compression)

3. New Dimension (After Compression)

4. Original Size (Before compression)

5. New Size (After compression)

 The logs are stored in a file named `image_optimization.log` in the project's root directory. You can access them to review the details of each image processed. An example of logs is given below.

```tex
================================================================
Image: pexels-alex-andrews-271121-821651.webp
Original Dimensions: (8192, 8192)
New Dimensions: (500, 500)
Original Size: 3.05 MB
New Size: 5.47 KB
===============================================================

Total images optimized: 1
Total size of all images: 3.05 MB
Compressed size of all images: 5.47 KB
```

## Setting Up the Project

1. **Clone this repo** 

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/asifthedev/compress-my-product-image.git
```

2. **Install Required Modules:**

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. **Set Up TinyPNG API Key:**

    Generate a TinyPNG API key by visiting [TinyPNG Developer Page](https://tinypng.com/developers).



     ```python

     api_key = 'your_tinypng_api_key_here'

     ```

## Running the Script

1. Ensure you have placed the images to be optimized in the `collections` directory.

2. Run the script:

   ```sh

   python app.py

   ```

3. The optimized images will be saved in the `New Collections` directory.

## Notes

- The script handles images with extensions `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.png`, and `.webp`.

- If an image is not in WebP format, it will be converted to WebP.

---

### requirements.txt

```plaintext
Pillow==8.2.0

tinify==1.5.1
```

Replace `your_script_name.py` with the actual name of your Python script file. Ensure you have Python and pip installed on your system before running the commands. This guide should help you set up and use the project efficiently.
